## Overview
`nse-screener` is a Python-based application designed to analyze and filter stock data from the Nifty 50 and Nifty 500 indices. The application loads stock data, processes it to filter out stocks based on specific criteria, and identifies the top-performing stocks over a given period.

## Features
- **Data Loading**: Load stock data from Nifty 50 and Nifty 500 indices.
- **Data Filtering**: Filter stocks based on percentage price changes.
- **Top Performers**: Identify the top-performing stocks over a specified period.

## Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/sammieboy97/nse-screener.git
   cd nse-screener
2. Install the required dependencies:
    ```pip install -r requirements.txt```

## Usage
1. Ensure you have the necessary CSV files in the data directory:
    * ind_nifty500list.csv
    * ind_nifty50list.csv
    * filtered_nifty50.csv (optional, generated by the app)
2. Run the main script:
    ```python main.py```

## Example
To filter data and get the top 10 symbols for a period of 100 days:
1. Uncomment the `create_filtered_data` line in `main.py` if you want to get newer data along with changing the dates.
    * Run the script to generate `filtered_nifty50.csv`.
3. Comment the `create_filtered_data` line and uncomment the `get_top_symbols_for_period` line.
4. Run the script again to get the top symbols.

## Future Plans
We plan to extend the application to support additional strategies and features, including:
- **Technical Indicators**: Incorporate technical indicators like moving averages, RSI, MACD, etc.
- **Backtesting**: Implement backtesting capabilities to evaluate the performance of different strategies.
- **Visualization**: Add visualization tools to plot stock data and analysis results.
- **Alerts**: Set up alerts for significant market movements or specific stock criteria.
- **Integration with Brokers**: Integrate with brokerage APIs for automated trading based on the strategies.

## Contributing
We welcome contributions from the community. If you have any ideas, suggestions, or bug reports, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgements
- [nsepython](https://github.com/vsjha18/nsepython) for providing the NSE data API.
- The open-source community for their invaluable contributions.

## Contact
For any inquiries or support, please contact [samueljohnson01997@gmail.com](mailto:samueljohnson01997@gmail.com).

---

Happy Coding!
